From: Paul M. Summitt [psummitt@summittnewmedia.com]
Sent: Wednesday, December 29, 1999 9:29 AM
To: Bob Cannon
Subject: RE: 5th Tennessee records

Bob:

Thanks for your quick reply.  I was at the website last night and enjoyed it tremendously.  That's how I found out about the book.  I've bookmarked it and would love to (with your permission) link it in to the Summitt Family Quarterly Civil War Links and Resources pages.  I'm the editor and my wife is the publisher of The Summitt Family Quarterly.  This family history newsletter comes out four times a year and has been in publication since April 1995. We will be beginning our 6th year of publication shortly. I would like to give you the opportunity to write something up for publication in the April 2000 issue of the Summitt Family Quarterly concerning your book.  Many of our subscribers are descendents of James Lee Summitt and several are from Monroe County, Tennessee.  All are tremendously interested in that period of time in our families history.  I will be sending you a check for the book after the first of the year. I look forward to reading the book and reviewing it on the website and in an upcoming issue.  I'm sure that there will be serveral other of our subscribers who will also want to buy your book.

Check our the Summitt Family Quarterly site (www.summittfamilyquarterly.com).  If you'd like, please feel free to post a message to the online discussion about the availability of the book. Also, please sign the guest book and leave your email address in the address book.

As for his "forfeit of pay" I know that in May of 1863, James Lee's father Jonathan had been arrested by the confederate forces for treason.  I've not been able to ascertain when Jonathan was released yet but know that James Lee, as an only son, would have been concerned.  I also know that both of James Lee's brother-in-laws, James Pardue and Andrew Gunn fought for the Confederacy and both, I think, were killed.  We have James Lee's pension application as well as his muster rolls from the archives.  We're still trying to get his bounty land information.  We also have some small amount of information about the 5th Tenn from a book we found at Shiloh.  My dad says there were stories told about James Lee (Dad was born in '31 and James Lee died in '27) that he fought at Chattanooga and the Battle above the Clouds.  A eulogy for James Lee that we've found written by a friend of James Lee also makes this claim although it also refers to Chickamonga and we know the 5th wasn't there.

I'm sorry for having gone on and on here but finding your website last night and now knowing that after the first of the year we'll have a chance to read your book has really sparked my enthusiasm.

One last item:  I lived in Louisville back in '69-'70.  Went to Seneca High School for the 10th grade.  Prentiss and Vanieta (brother and sister) Williams were two of my best friends at that time.  Haven't heard from either of them in over twenty years.  Another buddy of mine, a young television director by the name of Tim, currently works at WAVE there in Louisville.  One of these days I hope to visit your lovely town again and try and explore my old haunts.

Sincerely:

paul

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Paul M. Summitt, MCSE, MCP+I, MCP
Information Technology Communication Specialist
Summitt New Media
http:www.summittnewmedia.com
mailto:psummitt@summittnewmedia.com


-----Original Message-----
From: Bob Cannon [mailto:fifthtenn@earthlink.net]
Sent: Wednesday, December 29, 1999 8:04 AM
To: psummitt@summittnewmedia.com
Subject: Re: 5th Tennessee records


    It is great to hear from you.  The book is $29.95 plus $3.00 for
shipping and handling.
As far as his "forfeiting one month's pay", I wouldn't give it a lot of
thought.  After all, the men of the 5th were engaged in a war which
enveloped their home and family.  They not only had to be concerned about
themselves and staying alive, but their families being starved, sick, and
badly treated by not only the enemy but at times their own army.  Many of
them left to take care of their families and were AWOL for a short period of
time.  There are letters in the book which atest to this.  The men of the
north didn't have this problem since their homes weren't occupied by the
enemy.    During December, 1863, the men were in winter camp and very little
was happening.  There was no reason for him to leave since they weren't
traveling or engaged in fighting.  From this period until April, men many
were sent home to "guard their family property".   Also, please remember
that they wouldn't have just let him forfeit a month's pay if he had left
under fire or while on guard duty, etc.
    I suggest that you request his must roles and pension files from the
National Archives.  You must request that they supply the entire file and
not just the application forms.  There may be a letter or two that will
explain the specifics.  Many men applied for a pension and this type of
question arose.  When it did, they had to give a good explanation before
being considered fr a pension.
    I still hope you want the book.  I basically wrote it for descendants
such as yourself to understand what their ancestors and their families had
to endure.  If you do, sent the check to Bob Cannon, 10611 Kinross Ct.,
Louisville, KY 40243.  You may also want to look at the web site for the
book at http://home.earthlink.net/~fifthtenn/index.html  Let me know what
you think.
                                                        Best Regards,  Bob


----- Original Message -----
From: Paul M. Summitt <psummitt@socket.net>
To: <fifthtenn@earthlink.net>
Sent: Wednesday, December 29, 1999 12:01 AM
Subject: 5th Tennessee records


> Mr. Cannon:
>
>   I'm interested in the 5th Tennessee and its operations during the fall
of
> 1863.  I am currently doing research into my great-grandfather James Lee
> Summitt's reasons for deserting on Dec 24, 1863 and returning on Jan 24,
> 1864 (ordered to forfeit on month's pay and make good time lost during
> courtmartial by order of General Cox).  Your book has come to my attention
> as a possible resource of information.  Please send purchase information
as
> soon as possible.
>
> I look forward to hearing from you soon.
>
> Paul
>
> --------------------------------------------------------------------------
-
> Paul M. Summitt, MCSE, MCP+I, MCP
> Information Technology Communication Specialist
> Summitt New Media
> http:www.summittnewmedia.com
> mailto:psummitt@summittnewmedia.com
>
>
